# ChatGPT on Graphics

### Name0: Daniel He
### Name1: Derek Zang
### Name2: Raven (Ruiwen) Tang

---

## Background
Your goal is to get ChatGPT to create a program that meets all the requirements of our graphics engine up to the latest assignment. This includes:
* Drawing lines
* Drawing circles, and Bezier and Hermite curves.
* Maintining an edge list of points.
* Being able to perform & potentially combine transformations, rotations and dilations.
* Being able to save and display the images.
* Being able to correctly read in files using the graphics scripting language we've developed.

Some Notes:
* Please stick to C, Python or Java as the language of choice.
* Don't let ChatGPT use an existing graphics engine, it's got to work as hard as you have!
* If the program has multiple files, feel free to get ChatGPT to create a makefile for you.
* If you get it to create a useable grpahics engine, see if it can generate an image that shows off its capabilities.



## Task 0: Setup
Only one member of your group needs to have an account to use ChatGPT, if someone has one already, go ahead and use that. If not, pick one person to sign up, the simplest method to sign up would be to authenticate with google and use your stuy.edu email address. Authentication will require recieving a text message, so pick someone that has easy access to their phone.

You can find ChatGPT here: <https://chat.openai.com/chat>

## Task 1: The First Program
### Your Prompt
Provide below the first description you gave ChatGPT:

"Hello, can you please make a python program that can do the following: 
    Drawing lines
    Drawing circles, and Bezier and Hermite curves.
    Maintining an edge list of points.
    Being able to perform & potentially combine transformations, rotations and dilations.
    Being able to save and display the images.
    Being able to correctly read in files using the graphics scripting language we've developed."

### The Code
Crate a folder in this repository called __0-program__ containing all the relevant code initially created by ChatGPT.

### Your Analysis
Answer the Following Questions after seeing the initial program.

#### Question 0
Overall, how well did ChatGPT do?

At a glance, ChatGTP has included every keyword mentioned by the prompt into the program 

#### Question 1
What did ChatGPT get right?

ChatGTP utilized the graphics module and requires Point objects as arguments for drawing shapes. All arguments make sense; lines require 2 points, bezier requires 4 points, hermite requires 2 points + 2 miscellaneous arguments which we assume to be the slope, and circle requires the center and the radius. The matrix implementation seems to be simpler with only 2 by 2 matrices being used, however, this makes sense because there was no z coordinate specified in the prompt; the rotation and transformation matrix seems correct and applicable for what the rest of the code is achieving. Most of the heavy lifting is done by the graphics module.

#### Question 2
What did ChatGPT get wrong?

The edgelist implementation is different (most likely because of its vague presence in the prompt) due to its complete separation from the drawing class which is what is actually doing the graphics work. However, its actual substance seems correct for what little information was provided. ChatGTP made the edgelist for external(?) use, where you write additional code to add points into the list, and you loop through the list to grab points and shove them into the drawing methods. In this scenario the Edgelist is only a container and cannot act on any of the points it has, which fails to be efficient or useful because different case-by-case scenarios would require different manual code. 

After "Task 2: Refinement", ChatGTP began making up methods that are undefined and repeatedly failed to provide coherent code.

#### Question 3:
How much of the code generated by ChatGPT do you understand?

ChatGTP created classes which have not been widely exposed to us within the realm of python. Further, a large portion of the code may seem undefined if one did not recognize its origin from the graphics.py module. Official documentation of the graphics module is not easily found online, but the ones that were availabe did not fully delinate all the syntax that ChatGTP used, including an instance of the Curve object, the existance of which seems plausible yet was not mentioned within the online documentation.

#### Question 4:
How does ChatGPT's approach differe from yours?

ChatGTP's approach did not differ much, although its use of an external library to do all the work is cheating and makes this question less clear. It did not implement the edge list nor script reading, which was fault of the initial prompt.


## Task 2: Refinement
if possible, run the code made by ChatGPT. Based on your answers the questions above, and your observations about how the program runs, ask ChatGPT to improve the code. ChatGPT will generally understand that you are asking to make changes to your inital prompt, so you don't need to restate the enire problem, instead, ask for specific changes or improvements.

Provide each prompt you gave ChatGPT bellow. Give each prompt a header like this :`#### Prompt X` where X is a counter starting at 1.

#### Prompt 1

"I want the program to be able to automate this process by reading in a script file with the following format: 
    "Every command is a single character that takes up a line. Any command that requires arguments must have those arguments in the second line. The commands are as follows:
        line: add a line to the edge matrix -
        takes 6 arguemnts (x0, y0, z0, x1, y1, z1)
        ident: set the transform matrix to the identity matrix -
        scale: create a scale matrix,
               then multiply the transform matrix by the scale matrix -
               takes 3 arguments (sx, sy, sz)
        translate: create a translation matrix,
               then multiply the transform matrix by the translation matrix -
               takes 3 arguments (tx, ty, tz)
        rotate: create a rotation matrix,
               then multiply the transform matrix by the rotation matrix -
               takes 2 arguments (axis, theta) axis should be x y or z
        apply: apply the current transformation matrix to the edge matrix
        display: clear the screen, then
               draw the lines of the edge matrix to the screen
               display the screen
        save: clear the screen, then
               draw the lines of the edge matrix to the screen
               save the screen to a file -
               takes 1 argument (file name)
        quit: end parsing""

#### Prompt 2

"please provide an example script file that will generate a square"

#### Prompt 3

"what command do i add to the code to run the script and draw a square?"

#### Prompt 4

"please update the edge_list class with the add_bezier, add_circle, and add_hermite methods"

#### Prompt 5

"bezier_point in add_bezier is not defined"

#### Prompt 6

"add_point is not defined"

## Task 3: The Final Program
Include the final program created by ChatGPT in this repository in a folder called __1-program__.



